Future Data
        The topic of machines affecting labor has been discussed since the Industrial Revolution in the 18th century. New technologies are constantly being developed to complete tasks that humans would normally carry out. My project is focused on how machines, specifically artificial intelligence, will affect labor industries in the future. At its core, the website is a data visualization of different industries and demographics. I used data from 2010 to 2017 of percentages of people in the US to generate dots, representing humans, moving through education and then to an industry. My project is similar to Benjamin Fry’s work, Valence, in the Whitney Biennial. Valence uses large amounts of data from genomes to compare different animals. Like Valence, my project uses a lot of data and generates an animation as a visual aid to see the trends of different life paths.
Additionally, there are a couple graphics of men and women in the workplace, which were inspired by the article “Racist in the Machine” by Megan Garcia. Garcia calls for more diversity in the workplace, which would reduce bias in facial recognition. In general, diversity in any workplace is beneficial, as many different perspectives are thrown into a task, resulting in a better product. For this reason, the robot mode of my project doesn’t begin until there is gender equality in the workplace.
        While there are set markers to make changes happen in the data visualization, the user can also input their own news article to speed up the process. There are certain keywords the user can enter in that change some of the statistics that are involved with the data. For example, if the user types in a word that involves gender equality, such as “first female president,” then the wage gap quickly lessens as time progresses. The user can also type in articles that include words about the environment (affecting life expectancy), education (affecting educational attainment), war (affecting population growth and armed forces), etc. 
The most interesting speculation that my project makes is about artificial intelligence taking human jobs. My project takes an extreme dystopian view on these robots. The robots have a negative impact on humans as soon as they are introduced into the workforce. As the robot population increases exponentially, more and more humans are unemployed, and many of them go into the industry labelled “Other Services,” which has an added tagline “AI slaves.” The robots take over all of the industries, the first being science and technology, which allows them to create more and more robots. While new media and technologies have had positive effects on labor in the past, my project envisions AI being catastrophic for the workforce and humans in general.